The Joe Rogan experience.
Right now, one of the things that came up real recently was, uh,
this Jordan Peterson interview with vice which, uh,
in my opinion, especially when you look at the sound clip, uh,
they were talking about women in the workplace and women wearing makeup and high
heels and things in the workplace. And I know Jordan very well.
I love him. He's a great guy. He came off aggressive there and I don't know why.
I don't think, I dunno if he's tired of it or if he's digging his heels in,
I mean, he's, it.
Was apparently part of a two hour interview. Yes.
Which he kind of felt like he was on the ropes the whole time.
Yes. And he also was coming off of that big Kathy Newman interview in the UK,
which was like a, a assault. I mean, the whole thing was just crazy,
but he came out ahead on that and I think, um, there's,
there's,
it's much easier to make the argument that he didn't come out ahead in the vice
thing. Yeah. Especially in the way that they, they framed it,
but he was talking about women in the workplace and maybe women shouldn't wear
or makeup in the workplace and maybe they shouldn't wear high heels or dresses.
Um.
So he did say maybe, maybe yes. And he didn't,
he didn't say women shouldn't do this. The interviewer,
I can't remember his name. King king, J king maybe. Um, said,
so do you think women shouldn't wear makeup in high heels?
<affirmative> and he said maybe, yeah. And it was, you know, he's,
he's thinking he's, he's, he's considering options here.
He's not prepared upon first being asked a question to say yes, absolutely.
Or no, absolutely. This is, you know,
this is a sign of a nuanced thinking person. Yes.
Brain in action in real.
Time.
The problem with the reaction is the exact problem that you're trying to avoid
here, though. When you're saying, I don't wanna get in trouble here, you,
you preface that and then you slowly move forward. Whereas Jordan was like,
maybe, well, why are they wearing makeup? What are they doing? Well? And.
I, but I, I would say that, you know,
the generous interpretation and the evolutionary interpretation of what he said
was look,
the me too movement is arguing that there should be that there can be no
sexual signals in the workplace at all full stop.
That's not going to be possible because look at how many other sexual signals
there are, right makeup heels.
Now the response has been those aren't sexual signal.
I wear heels and I'm not sexually signaling. And, you know,
to which the evolutionary response is what heels do is
augment sexual signals that you were born with,
whether or not you are conscious of the fact that that is why you were doing it,
that doesn't make it any less of a sexual signal. Right?
And so what Peterson was saying was if we really are going
to accept the argument that all signals of this type need to be abandoned from,
you know, need to be gotten rid of from the workplace,
then maybe we actually need to investigate all of the other things that are
sexual signals that aren't being talked about right now.
So there are a couple things, first of all,
have you seen the clip filmed from the audience of him
talking about what happened with that vice interview? No.
It's well worth your time. I think it's seven or eight minutes, um,
of him talking about what happened. I do think Peterson who I also,
I don't think I know, can you give us cliff notes or what? Yeah.
I mean the cliff notes are, he said, look,
this is how one engages in thought one
advances an idea. It doesn't mean something's going to happen. Right.
I think he literally says,
I didn't say women shouldn't wear makeup in the workplace. I said, maybe,
and this is we do. And then he describes, he says, um,
let's, um,
let's agree that I'm gonna put forward 10 things that might happen and then
let's agree that none of them are going to happen.
So now we can discuss the possibilities.
So I don't think we know what the actual interview with,
with J Kang looked like,
because there was two hours of it and I've seen 15 minutes. Yeah.
Why won't they release more of it? I think they should release the whole thing.
I do think what I saw. So we don't know the context. Right. Which my guess is,
uh, Peterson's pretty careful in what he says.
My guess is the context would be revealing.
I think based on the part that we know that he said,
because it is in the clips that we've seen,
we know something's funny because the editing juxtaposes him seeming to
contradict himself. And he's actually pretty careful not to do that. Um,
but what he did actually say contains what I regard as
at least one sign an error. So he says,
uh,
I do think that in response to the question of are women hypocrites
for wearing makeup to work. And then, uh,
I don't want to put words in his mouth, but something like demanding not to be,
uh, harassed, harassed, or something like that.
So he's forgetting that many of these signals aren't conscious in doing that,
not conscious, but you know, I saw somebody online discussing this.
They made a very good 0.1. That's actually pretty hard to field.
If these are signals, even unconscious ones, if they are sexual signals,
why am I wearing one to go to a family reunion?
Am I wearing high heels to go to a family reunion?
Am I secretly trying to get lucky at my own family reunion? Um,
and the answer is, no, this is not a matter what,
what Peterson said when you know, Peterson has done so many interviews,
the fact that he says a clumsy thing here,
doesn't strike me one way or the other, but I don't want,
wanna be put in the position of defending that women are hypocritical for
wearing makeup and high heels.
There are lots of reasons that you have to wear them, including social pressure,
including the fact that you are in a landscape of other people wearing
them.
And if you stand out as being plain in a world of other women
who are amplifying these things,
it may actually have implications for your ability to earn.
So there are lots of reasons that you might do it that have nothing to do with
you as an individual, trying to signal for sexual attention.
It doesn't mean that those things didn't evolve as sexual signals, right?
Sexual signals to us, evolutionary biologists. This is no news. I mean,
if you're a woman and you've got breasts and you're walking around in the world,
you're broadcasting a sexual signal and that one's completely unconscious and
involuntary it's physiological, right?
So the idea that these signals are out there and common should be,
should become some thing we become comfortable with. Um,
the fact that males are involved in all kinds of signaling all the time that you
know, that, uh, the coroner office, the mahogany desk, and you know,
it's not that a woman can't have a corner office in a mahogany desk,
but traditionally speaking those hallmarks of, uh,
stage and resource acquisition, yes,
those things have implication in the sexual landscape.
That's very powerful as does frankly humor.
The way humor is used has powerful implications in terms of
sexual signaling, as does, who laughs at your jokes. I mean,
if the boss makes a joke, everybody laughs whether or not it's funny.
Why is that he's of power. They're trying to get ahead. Um,
so we can't get rid of all of this. We can't get rid of,
can't get rid of all of this. And if we look at something like, um,
an engagement ring, right,
if you were to analyze an engagement ring anthropologically, right?
So there are these stones, actually,
the truth of it is there these stones that aren't really that rare,
but they've been made artificially scarce and a man will get one of
these stones and he will put it on a thing that can be put on
a woman's finger and the size of the stone and the quality of the stone.
Even though the stone is not actually useful for very much,
it is symbolically important.
And it is evidence of the woman's worth. In some sense,
in other words, the larger the stone,
it indicates that the man values her at a greater level. I mean,
this is an absurd, an absurd set of signals.
And we treat it as if it's just nothing. You know,
woman gets an engagement ring. Maybe if she's traditional, her friends will,
you know, look at it it and say, oh, that's marvelous. I mean,
so we're engaged in all of this archaic signaling anyway.
And when you tune into it, it is very jarring,
but it does not make sense to isolate one set of these signals and say, ah,
look, they're signaling, right?
Because those signals are embedded in a landscape signals that we go
through our entire life, not realizing that we are making.
And the last point I would make is that we also need to recognize that we have a
mismatch between
personal signaling and broadcast signaling.
So it may be that a woman, uh,
wears something in order to catch a particular male's attention.
But the fact that she's wearing it may catch other male's attention.
And that fact may confuse the landscape because, um,
men in may take it as a sign that she's interested in something.
When in fact she's not interested in something she's interested in someone who
happens to be in this landscape.
So what I hope is that we will recognize that the thing
that we should all agree on is that it is desirable to
have the freedom to life as you would engage
it.